SUSHIL DHAKAL
sushildhakal312@gmail.com ⋄ linkedin.com/in/sushil3125 ⋄ github.com/sushil3125
+977-9863038534 ⋄ Kathmandu, Nepal
+91-9041826077 ⋄ Chandigarh, India
OBJECTIVE
Highly skilled computer science and engineering graduate with 3 years of experience in Machine Learning and AI.
Passionate about solving real-life problems using Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision, and Machine
Learning techniques.
SKILLS
Programming Language C/ C++, Python, HTML, CSS and JavaScript
Machine Learning with Python Classification, Regression, EDA, and Feature Engineering
Deep Learning and Neural Network ANN, Transfer Learning, Hyper-parameter Tuning
Computer Vision CNN, ResNet, VGG, MobileNet, Object Detection and Localization,
RCNN, YOLO
Natural Language Processing RNN,LSTM, Transformers, BERT, Encoder/Decoder model,
GPT, GPT-3, Prompt Engineering
Backend Development with Python Django, Flask and FastAPI
Database MYSQL
F ramework and Applications Tensorflow, Pytorch, Anaconda, Selenium, Streamlit, Scrapy,
Beautiful Soup, and many more
Deployment and Operations Kubernetes, Jenkins, Docker, AWS, ArgoCD, MLOps, etc.
EXPERIENCE
Software Engineer- AI/ ML and Backend Sep 2023 - Present
Fonenxt Pvt. Ltd. (A F1soft Group of Company) Kathmandu, Nepal
• Developed ML solutions for OCR, FCR, recommendations, and data labelling.
• Worked on GenAI projects: LLM fine-tuning, RAG agents, chatbots, and Vision-LMs.
• Deployed and managed high-throughput on-prem LLM servers.
• Built backend systems using Python, Django, Flask, REST, and MySQL.
• Implemented bank-compliant logic (e.g., Maker-Checker) in APIs and databases.
• Designed scalable back-office platforms for enterprise and banking clients.
• Automated deployments using Docker, Jenkins, ArgoCD, Harbor, and K3s.
• Worked with AWS and hybrid infrastructure for production workloads.
• Built ETL pipelines and performed data cleaning, annotation, and visualization.
• Trained and deployed ML models for various business use cases
AI and Data Science Mar 2023 - Sep 2023
Infodevelopers Pvt. Ltd. Kathmandu, Nepal
• Utilized Image Processing, Tesseract, and a custom data labeling tool to build a captcha recognition system,
improving accuracy from 86% to 96% using Vision Transformers.
• Applied Web Scraping, Object Detection, and Machine Learning algorithms in projects, enabling automated
data collection and analysis.
• Deployed multiple AI solutions using Docker, ensuring scalable, efficient, and reliable delivery.
Deep Learning Engineer April 2022 - Feb 2023
Datatobiz Pvt. Ltd. Chandigarh, India
• Utilized Python, NLP, and NER for resume parsing and entity extraction, improving parsing accuracy from 60%
to 80%.
• Applied Machine Learning, Sentiment Analysis, and AES techniques for candidate evaluation, enhancing preci-
sion and reducing manual effort.
• Worked with OpenAI Whisper, Embeddings, and similarity models to automate interviews, eliminating the need
for human intervention.
Python Developer Intern Sep 2021 - Oct 2021
LearnVern Pvt. Ltd. Remote(Online)
• 8 week industrial training in python programming. Learned about python and machine learning and also build
various GUI based app
EDUCA TION
B.T ech Computer Science and Engineering Aug 2019 - Jul 2023
Punjab T echnical University Chandigarh, India
8.6 CGPA out of 10
PROJECTS
Multi-Class Object Detection on Custom Dataset using V arious T echniques Developed and implemented
a robust object detection system using a custom dataset of 4,000 images. Trained and compared four state-of-
the-art models (Faster RCNN, Yolov3, Yolov5, Yolov8), achieving the highest performance with Yolov8 (mAP50:
0.735). Utilized accurate annotation tools and conducted extensive model evaluations based on various parameters.
Demonstrated expertise in computer vision, deep learning, and data preprocessing.
OCR Citizenship The OCR Citizenship is a powerful software program designed to streamline the extraction
of valuable entities from citizenship images. Leveraging advanced image processing techniques, Optical Character
Recognition (OCR), and Natural Language Processing (NLP) algorithms, this project automates the process of
extracting essential information from citizenship documents, reducing manual effort and enhancing efficiency. The
user interface and front-end of the system are built using Streamlit, providing a seamless and interactive experience
for users. Link
Air Canvas A Python-based computer vision project using Mediapipe, Air Canvas allows users to draw on a virtual
white canvas without physical contact with input devices. By leveraging computer vision and deep learning, the
project detects the user’s hand and tracks 21 landmarks, enabling interaction with the canvas using the tip of the
finger.Link
EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
• Employee of the month - Shrawan (Aug, 2024)
Awarded Employee of the Month for outstanding performance and contributions
• Involved and contributed on various research project conducted by F1soft Advance Research Lab (F1ARL -
2024/25)
Contributed to multiple research projects at F1Soft Advanced Research Lab, supporting innovation and de-
velopment initiatives. Multilingual AI Agents, Anti Spoofing detection on Edge Devices (Mobile device) and
Advance Face Comparison.
• Niyoto Catalyst - 3rd Position (01/2022 - 08/2022)
Niyoto Catalyst 2022 is an all India inter college, student’s contest that will have students from multiple disci-
plines competing in a lateral thinking, critical reasoning and problem solving skills.
• DeekHack 2023
Leveraged participation in Deer Hack, first hackathon organized by DeerWalk Education Group, to gain valuable
experience in collaborating with diverse teams and developing innovative solutions to real-world challenges.
• Hackerrank
Achieved problem solving skills certificate as well as other certificate from Hackerrank.
LANGUAGES
• English Full Professional Proficiency
• Nepali Full Professional Proficiency
• Hindi Full Professional Proficiency
